"How" is fine and all, you say, but what about "why"? Why on Earth would anyone want to be a hippie? It's a fair question of course, and one that should be answered straight away in Chapter 1.

*Chapter 1.* 
 Sitting in our offices, waving our mouse pointers around, some words come unbidden to the mind - utility, futility, freedom, happiness. What do all these mean? Do these concepts have a place in our lives? Is happiness owning your own place and two weeks holiday every year? Or is there something more? Freedom - what is it? How does it fit into a life spent at the office cubicle and on the office commute? Then we look up at the clock and it is lunch time, so we go find someone to have lunch with. Or a Facebook status update distracts us from these musings. Or we shake our heads and check email once again. All these concepts are just that - concepts. In reality, man has to work. Life is not easy. There are bills to pay. EMIs to make. Children's schooling to look after. Concepts such as freedom and happiness are luxuries for people without any responsibilities.

And yet, in the zombie period after lunch, the thoughts return. A random Internet article about someone who flew a paraglider across the Himalayas you once again jogs those little wheels - can there be something more than tubelights and air-conditioning?

Being a hippie is about being free and being happy. While the popular consciousness paints hippies as irresponsible layabouts, this is by no means an accurate description. I myself have a job, a wife and a child and all the responsibilities of an adult and yet I am a hippie. I neither drink nor smoke nor consume drugs, though I did all of these on a regular basis when I was younger. I vacation as much as I want during a year. We travel extensively, read voraciously and are deep into music and film, while raising a child and holding down a demanding job. This ability - to be free inspite of the troubles of the world - is what it means to be a hippie.

The honest truth is that this freedom is within reach of anyone who wants it. Of course, as they say, freedom isn't free, and to attain it
